Adding the Custom Device Types page (#10)
ni/niveristand-custom-device-handbook: docs/Custom_Device_Types.md

## Custom Device Types

> While deployed to the Target, all custom devices run inside the VeriStand Engine. The engine is the non-visible mechanism that controls the timing of the entire system as well as communication between the Target and Host Computer. See **[VeriStand Manual](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/manual-overview/)** » **[VeriStand Environment](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/environment/)** » **[Components of a VeriStand Project](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/project-components/)** » **[VeriStand Engine](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/vs-engine/)** for more information.

Reviewer: can you "non-visible"?  It doesn't add anything to the description, since you can 'see the engine' via the console and the effects the engine produces.

The [niveristand-custom-device-wizard](https://github.com/ni/niveristand-custom-device-wizard/releases) generates a new LabVIEW Project containing one of five [device frameworks](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/custom-device-types/). The framework is determined by the **Custom Device Execution Mode** control.

![](images/Execution_mode_control.jpg)

> **Figure: NI VeriStand Custom Device Wizard**

Reviewer: Generally, when showing an image it is labeled with Figure 1, Figure 2, Figure 3.... and so on down the page. That way the body text can refer to a specific image.  Can you add numbers to these?

1.	Initialize
2.	Start
3.	Read Data from Hardware
4.	Write Data to Hardware
5.	Close

This custom device runs in-line with the PCL, which calls each case at a specific time with respect to the other components in the VeriStand engine. The PCL will not proceed until the custom device case has completed.

### Initialize

> The Initialize case executes before the PCL starts. In this case, you can read the device configuration information from properties using the reference to the device. Initialize data and buffers used internally in the device. The framework compiles the list of Data References for the custom device Inputs and Outputs in advance using **[Custom Device API](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_custom_device_api_vis_pal/)** » **[Driver Functions](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_driver_functions_vis_pal/)** » **[Get Custom Device Channel List](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_get_custom_device_channel_list_vi/)** and Custom Device API.lvlib » Templates » RT Driver VIs » Inline » Inline Driver Utilities » Channel Data References » Get Channel Data Reference.

Reviewer: There are some issues with that path to Get Channel Data Reference.  There is help for that function.  Here is an updated chain of help doc links to lead to Get Channel Data Reference:

Custom Device API   https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_custom_device_api_vis_pal/
>>
Driver Functions  https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_driver_functions_vis_pal/
>>
Data References   https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_data_references_pal/
>>
Get Channel Data Reference  https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristandmerge/vs_get_channel_data_reference/

 
![](images/Initialize_State_of_the_Inline_Hardware.jpg)

**Figure: Initialize State of the Inline Hardware Interface Framework**

Since the PCL hasn’t started yet, you can't read or write channel values in the Initialize case.

### Start

The Start case executes after Initialization and before the PCL starts running. There’s no difference between what code you can place in the Initialize and Start states. Since the PCL hasn’t started yet, you can't read or write channel values in the Start case.

### Read Data from HW

> The Read Data from HW case executes at the beginning of the PCL, before other components (such as stimulus profiles, faults, alarms, procedures, etc.) execute. For a detailed timing diagram, see the **[Outline of PCL Iteration](https://niveristand-custom-device-handbook.readthedocs.io/en/latest/Custom_Device_Types.html#outline-of-pcl-iteration)** section. After processing system mappings, the data obtained in this case is available to the other components of the system for the remainder of the PCL iteration.

Reviewer: I'm reviewing from this link: https://niveristand-custom-device-handbook--10.org.readthedocs.build/en/10/Custom_Device_Types.html

and the link to "Outline of PCL Iteration" goes to a broken page for me.
Not sure if that's an issue with the 'built page' or is just something related to this being a PR under review.

Reviewer 2: It will work when the "Outline of PCL Iteration" will be merged into main.

1.	Initialize – Same as Inline HW Interface
2.	Start – Same as Inline HW Interface
3.	Execute Model
4.	Close – Same as Inline HW Interface

This custom device is run in-line with the PCL, which calls each case at a specific time with respect to the other components in the system. The PCL will not proceed until the custom device case has returned.

### Execute Model

The execute model case is called in the middle of the PCL. This is the one state of this device that executes during the PCL. This state reads input data, performs a calculation, and then writes output data to VeriStand. Using the Inline Model Interface mode enables you to process data acquired from hardware inputs and send the processed values to hardware outputs with no latency.

![](images/Execute_Model_State.jpg)

**Figure: Execute Model State of the Inline Model Interface Framework**

Do not call **Get** or **Set Channel Value by Data Reference** outside the inline driver VI. Doing so could cause system instability or errors.
 
### Pre-defined Custom Device Types

The type of a custom device refers to its execution mode, which defines how the device interacts with the VeriStand Engine.

> The **[following table](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/custom-device-types/)** displays the pre-defined custom device types that are included in VeriStand.

Reviewer: please fix the wording "The following table" as the table is not following this statement - rather the link navigates you to a table in the online product help.  something like "This table" at the link text would be an improvement?

The **[Data Processing Loop](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/vs-engine/)** is responsible for executing procedures, alarms, and calculated channels. For more information about hardware timing in VeriStand see **[KnowledgeBase: Hardware I/O Latency Times in NI VeriStand](https://knowledge.ni.com/KnowledgeArticleDetails?id=kA00Z000000kKVGSA2&l=en-US)**.

### Parallel Mode

In *Parallel* mode, the PCL initiates execution of models and continues to its next iteration without waiting for models to finish executing. This causes a one-cycle delay between when a model executes and when the data it produces is available to the system.

1.	Get inputs from hardware devices in the system definition.

> &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Note:** If the system includes an inline hardware interface custom device, the PCL reads DAQ digital lines and counters after the Read Data from HW case of the custom device executes in step 3.

Reviewer: Is is possible to format these 'Note" statements differently?  It is really hard to read this text list.

Better would be to omit these Notes from the numbered lists, so that it reads:
Get inputs from hardware devices in the system definition.     Note: If the system includes an inline hardware interface custom device, the PCL reads DAQ digital lines and counters after the Read Data from HW case of the custom device executes in step 3.

1. Get inputs from hardware devices in the system definition
2. Read asynchronous custom device FIFOs from the previous iteration*
3. Runs the Read Data From HW case of inline hardware interface custom devices†
4. Reads previous iteration data from models in the system definition‡
5. Reads data from the previous iteration of the Data Processing Loop
6. Processes system mappings§
7. Runs the Execute Model case of inline model interface custom devices
8. Executes steps of running real-time sequences‖
9. Processes system mappings
10. Writes data to models

and then list the Notes as [footnote labels](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Note_(typography)) to refer to the 5 Note statements.  *, †, ‡, §, ‖

If you don't like the footnote approach, you could also turn this list into a 2-column data table where the 2nd column is called 'Notes' or 'Comments' and then you only fill in 5 of the rows that have notes.

Reviewer 2: It is the same format as on the VeriStand Manual from ni.com:
https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/pcl-execution/

9.	Processes system mappings.
10.	Writes data to models.
11.	Initiates asynchronous execution of models.
12.	Writes data to the Data Processing Loop.
13.	Writes output data to hardware devices.
14.	Runs the **Write Data to HW** case of inline hardware interface custom devices.
15.	Writes data to asynchronous custom device FIFOs.

 
### Low-Latency Mode

In *Low* Latency mode, the PCL waits for the Model Execution Loop(s) to finish writing data to models before it reads and publishes model values to the system. This occurs during every iteration of the system. When the model completes execution, the PCL provides data from the model to other loops during the same iteration that the model generated the data.

> 1.	Gets inputs from hardware devices in the system definition.

Reviewer: See my comment above about footnotes, they would need to be applied to this list too.

Reviewer 2: We kept the same format as what we saw in VeriStand Manual from ni.com:
https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/pcl-execution/

## Custom Device Types

> While deployed to the execution host, all custom devices run inside the VeriStand Engine. The engine is the non-visible mechanism that controls the timing of the entire system as well as communication between the execution host and host computer. See **[VeriStand Help](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/)** » **[Components of a Project](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristand/comp_of_project/)** » **[Understanding the VeriStand Engine](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristand/understanding_vs_engine/)** for more information.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While deployed to the execution host, all custom devices run inside the VeriStand Engine. The engine is the non-visible mechanism that controls the timing of the entire system as well as communication between the execution host and host computer. See **[VeriStand Manual](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/manual-overview/)** » **[Components of a VeriStand Project](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/project-components/)** » **[VeriStand Engine](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/vs-engine/)** for more information.
```

**Figure: Initialize State of the Inline Hardware Interface Framework**

Since the PCL hasn’t started yet, you can't read or write channel values in the Initialize case.

### Start

The Start case executes after Initialization and before the PCL starts running. There’s no difference between what code you can place in the Initialize and Start states. Since the PCL hasn’t started yet, you can't read or write channel values in the Start case.

### Read Data from HW

The Read Data from HW case executes at the beginning of the PCL, before other components (such as Stimulus, Faults, Alarms, Procedures, et cetera) execute. For a detailed timing diagram, see the **Outline of PCL Iteration** section. After processing system mappings, the data obtained in this case is available to the other components of the system for the remainder of the PCL iteration.

![](images/Read_Data_from_HW_State.jpg)

**Figure: Read Data from HW State of the Inline Hardware Interface Framework**
 
The template contains a Flat Sequence frame named Read Hardware Channels. You can replace the code inside the frame with the API calls necessary to obtain data from a hardware API.

> Do not call Get or Set Channel Value by Data Reference outside the inline driver VI.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do not call **Get** or **Set Channel Value by Data Reference** outside the inline driver VI.
```

Doing so could cause system instability or errors.

### Write Data to HW

> The Write Data to HW case executes at the end of the PCL, after the other components (such as Stimulus, Faults, Alarms, Procedures, et cetera) have executed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Write Data to HW case executes at the end of the PCL, after the other components (such as stimulus profiles, faults, alarms, procedures, etc. ) have executed.
```

1.	Initialize – Same as Inline HW Interface
2.	Start – Same as Inline HW Interface
3.	Execute Model
4.	Close – Same as Inline HW Interface

This custom device is run in-line with the PCL, which calls each case at a specific time with respect to the other components in the system. The PCL will not proceed until the custom device case has returned.

### Execute Model

The execute model case is called in the middle of the PCL. This is the one state of this device that executes during the PCL. This state reads input data, performs a calculation, and then writes output data to VeriStand. Using the Inline Model Interface mode enables you to process data acquired from hardware inputs and send the processed values to hardware outputs with no latency.

![](images/Execute_Model_State.jpg)

**Figure: Execute Model State of the Inline Model Interface Framework**

Do not call **Get** or **Set Channel Value by Data Reference** outside the inline driver VI. Doing so could cause system instability or errors.
 
### Pre-defined Custom Device Types

The type of a custom device refers to its execution mode, which defines how the device interacts with the VeriStand Engine.

> In VeriStand are included several pre-defined custom device types. To check the table with the custom device types go to **[pre-defined custom device types](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/custom-device-types/)**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The **[following table](https://www.ni.com/documentation/en/veristand/latest/manual/custom-device-types/)** displays the pre-defined custom device types that are included in VeriStand.
```

14.	Run the Write to Hardware case of Inline Hardware custom devices
15.	Write to Asynchronous device FIFOs

You can’t read data from a previous step until a “process system mappings” step has executed, even if that step acquired the data you want. For example, you write an inline HW custom device, and inside the read data from HW state of this custom device, you want to read the channel data from a DAQ card in the configuration. The DAQ executes at step 1, your code executes at step 3. However, if you read the channel for the DAQ in your code in step 3, you would get the data from the previous iteration (N-1) because “process system mappings” hasn’t executed yet. This is the case for NIVS 2010, it will likely change in the future.
 
### Low-Latency Mode

Low latency mode executes models in-line.
1.	Get hardware inputs from **[Controller](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristand/cp_controller/)** » **[Hardware](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846B-01/veristand/hardware_se/)** » **[Chassis](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846B-01/veristand/chassis_se/)**

> •	DAQ Digital Lines and Counters are read after Read From HW case of Inline Hardware custom devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Note:** If the system includes an inline hardware interface custom device, the PCL reads DAQ digital lines and counters after the Read Data from HW case of the custom device executes in step 3.
```

2.	Read asynchronous custom device FIFOs (N-1)
3.	Run the Read Data From HW case of Inline Hardware custom devices

> •	Scaling is applied after all hardware inputs have been acquired

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Note:** If you configured hardware scaling, VeriStand applies the scaling after acquiring all hardware inputs.
```

> 4.	Read from DPL (N-1)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4.	Reads data from the previous iteration of the Data Processing Loop.
```

5.	Process system mappings1
6.	Run the Execute Model case of Inline Model custom devices

> •	All hardware inputs have been acquired and all channels have been scaled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> before this case runs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> 7.	Process system mappings1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7.	Executes steps of running real-time sequences.
&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; **Note:** VeriStand executes real-time sequences after input operations but before output operations and continues to run every step of the real-time sequence until the sequence is complete, reaches a Yield step, or completes an iteration of a loop with Auto Yield set to TRUE. If a sequence takes longer than the given time for an iteration of the PCL, the PCL runs late. To avoid errors, break up the timing of the steps by placing Yield steps throughout the sequence and enabling the Auto Yield property for any loops in the sequence.
```

8.	Execute generators

> 9.	Process mappings1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
9.	Writes data to models.
```

> 10.	Write to **[Controller](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristand/cp_controller/)** » **[Simulation Models](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846B-01/veristand/simulation_models_se/)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
10.	Initiates execution of models and waits for them to complete execution.
```

> 11.	Wait for models to finish

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
11.	Reads data from models.
```

> 12.	Read from **[Controller](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristand/cp_controller/)** » **[Simulation Models](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846B-01/veristand/simulation_models_se/)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
12.	Processes system mappings.
```

> 13.	Process system mappings1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
13.	Writes data to the Data Processing Loop.
```

> 14.	Write to DPL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
14.	Writes output data to hardware devices.
```

> 15.	Write hardware outputs to **[Controller](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846M-01/veristand/cp_controller/)** » **[Hardware](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846B-01/veristand/hardware_se/)** » **[Chassis](https://zone.ni.com/reference/en-XX/help/372846B-01/veristand/chassis_se/)**

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
15.	Runs the **Write Data to HW** case of inline hardware interface custom devices.
```

> 16.	Run the Write to Hardware case of Inline Hardware custom devices

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
16.	Writes data to asynchronous custom device FIFOs.
```

> 17.	Write to Asynchronous device FIFOs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

> Based on the timing requirements of the custom device, plan the type of device before executing the Custom Device Template Tool. The AES-201 API sinks and sources data during steady-state operation; the custom device needs input and output channels. The operator needs deterministic hardware data. The AES-201 should be implemented with the Inline Hardware type of custom device.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
